# ICCO - Initial Cros-Chain Offerings

## Objective

To use the Wormhole message passing protocol to enable trustless cross-chain token sales.

## Background

Token sales are one of the major applications of today's blockchains.
Currently they are either conducted on a single chain in a trustless fashion or in a centralized fashion with support to contribute tokens from multiple chains.
Using wormhole we can bridge this gap - Allow users to contribute assets on all supported chains and issue a token that we can bridge to all chains for them to claim after the sale has been concluded.



## Goals

We want to implement a generalized, trustless cross-chain mechanism for token sales.

* Allow contributions of whitelisted assets on all supported chains
  * Users dont need to maintain multiple wallets, but can conveniently participate from their native environment.
* Issue a token on wormhole chain and leverage the wormholes token bridge to distribute them to all participants on their chains.

## Non-Goals

* Automatically relay messages across chains. The design assumes there is always a party interested in synchronizing the data across chains, let it be the token issuer or an investor who wants to claim its tokens.

## Overview

There are two programs needed to model this.

* A`TokenSaleConductor`, which lifes on one chain (It can exist on all chains, however it only needs to be invoked on one to initiate a sale).
  * It holds the tokens that are up for sale and maintains and collects the state around the sale
    *`TokenSaleContributor`contracts on all chains.
  * Collects contributions, distributes tokens to contributors after the sale has ended and the token allocation has been bridged.

## Detailed Design

To create a sale, a user invokes the`createSale()`method on the sale conductor. It takes the following set or arguments:

* Offered token amount and address
* A start and end timestamp during which contributions are accepted
* A minimum USD amount to raise
* An array of accepted tokens on each chain + the USD conversion rate which they are accepted at.
* The address that can claim the proceeds of the sale.
* The address that should receive the offered tokens in case the minimum raise amount is not met.

The`createSale()`method deposits the offered tokens, assigns an ID which identifies the sale and attests a`SaleInit`paket over the wormhole. This paket contains all the information from above.
The sale information is also stored locally.

The attested`SaleInit`paket is submitted to the`TokenSaleContributor`contracts. The contributor contracts stores the sale information locally which is relevant to its chain.

During the start and end timestamp the contributor contracts accept contributions in the specified tokens.

After the sale duration anyone can call the`attestContributions()`method on the contributor, which attests a`Contribution`paket over the wormhole.

The`TokenSaleConductor`now collects the`Contributions`pakets from all chains & tokens.

After all contributions have been collected, anyone can call the`sealSale()`method on the Conductor.
The method evaluates whether the minimum raise amount has been met using the conversion rates specified initially (a later version could use rates from an oracle at closing). In case it was successfull it:

* emits a`SaleSealed`paket - indicated to the Contributor contracts that the sale was successfull
* bridges the relevant share of offered tokens to the Contributor contracts.

Or in case the goal was not met, it:

* emits a`SaleAborted`packet.

The Contributor contracts has two functions to consume the relevant attestations:

* `saleSealed()`
  * Starts to accept claims of users acquired tokens via `claimAllocation()`
  * Bridges the raised funds over to the recipient
* `saleAborted()`
  * Starts to accept refund claims via `claimRefund()`


### API / database schema

**TokenSaleConductor**:

* `createSale(address token, uint tokenAmount, uint minRaise, uint saleStart, uint saleEnd, []Token acceptedTokens, address recipient, address refundRecipient)`
* `collectContributions(vaa Contributions)`
* `sealSale(uint saleId)`
* `claimRefund(uint saleId)`

Governance:
* `registerChain(vaa RegisterChain)`
* `upgrade(vaa ConductorUpgrade)`

**TokenSaleContributor**:

* `initSale(vaa SaleInit)`
* `contribute(uint saleId, uint tokenIndex, uint amount)`
* `attestContributions(uint saleId)`
* `saleSealed(vaa SaleSealed)`
* `saleAborted(vaa SaleAborted)`
* `claimAllocation(uint saleId, uint tokenIndex)`
* `claimRefund(uint saleId, uint tokenIndex)`

Governance:
* `upgrade(vaa ContributorUpgrade)`

---

**Structs**:

* Token
  * uint16 chainId
  * bytes32 address
  * uint256 conversionRate

* Contribution
  * uint8 tokenIndex (index in accepted tokens array)
  * uint256 contributedAmount
  
* Allocation
  * uint8 tokenIndex (index in accepted tokens array)
  * uint256 allocation (amount distributed to contributors on this chain)

---

**Payloads**:

SaleInit:
```
// PayloadID uint8 = 1
uint8 payloadID;
// Sale ID
uint256 saleID;
// Address of the token being sold. Left-zero-padded if shorter than 32 bytes
bytes32 tokenAddress;
// Chain ID of the token being sold
uint16 tokenChain;
// token amount being sold
uint256 tokenAmount;
// min raise amount
uint256 minRaise;
// timestamp raise start
uint256 saleStart;
// timestamp raise end
uint256 saleEnd;
// accepted tokens length
uint8 tokensLen;

// repeated for tokensLen times, Struct 'Token'
  // Address of the token. Left-zero-padded if shorter than 32 bytes
  bytes32 tokenAddress;
  // Chain ID of the token
  uint16 tokenChain;
  // conversion rate for the token
  uint256 conversionRate;

// recipient of proceeds 
bytes32 recipient;
// refund recipient in case the sale is aborted
bytes32 refundRecipient;
```

ContributionsSealed:
```
// PayloadID uint8 = 2
uint8 payloadID;
// Sale ID
uint256 saleID;
// Chain ID 
uint16 chainID;

// local contributions length
uint8 contributionsLen;

// repeated for tokensLen times, Struct 'Contribution'
  // index in acceptedTokens array
  uint8 index
  // contributed amount of token
  uint256 contributed;
```

SaleSealed:
```
// PayloadID uint8 = 3
uint8 payloadID;
// Sale ID
uint256 saleID;

// local allocations length
uint8 allocationsLen;

// repeated for allocationsLen times, Struct 'Allocation'
  // index in acceptedTokens array
  uint8 index
  // amount of sold tokens allocated to contributors on this chain
  uint256 allocation;
```

SaleAborted:
```
// PayloadID uint8 = 4
uint8 payloadID;
// Sale ID
uint256 saleID;
```

RegisterChain:
```
// Gov Header
// Module Identifier  ("TokenSale" left-padded)
Module [32]byte 
// Governance Action ID (1 for RegisterChain)
Action uint8 = 1
// Target Chain (Where the governance action should be applied)
// (0 is a valid value for all chains) 
ChainId uint16

// Packet
// Emitter Chain ID
EmitterChainID uint16
// Emitter address. Left-zero-padded if shorter than 32 bytes
EmitterAddress [32]uint8
```

ConductorUpgrade:
```
// Header
// Module Identifier  ("TokenSale" left-padded)
Module [32]byte 
// Governance Action ID (2 for ConductorUpgrade)
Action uint8 = 2
// Target Chain  (Where the governance action should be applied)
ChainId uint16

// Packet
// Address of the new contract
NewContract [32]uint8
```

ContributorUpgrade:
```
// Header
// Module Identifier  ("TokenSale" left-padded)
Module [32]byte 
// Governance Action ID (3 for ContributorUpgrade)
Action uint8 = 3
// Target Chain  (Where the governance action should be applied)
ChainId uint16

// Packet
// Address of the new contract
NewContract [32]uint8
```